---
layout: skeleton
title: "fuzz"
date: 2017-06-27 15:22
comments: true
categories: categories
---

# fuzzy matching

I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that the most important UI
development in the last fifteen years hasn't been the rise of voice-control
assistants, conversational artificial intelligence chatbots, or virtual reality
environments. It's something that even rivals the intuitive and universal
qualities we have through now-ubiquitous touchscreens. No, the most important
innovation has been something that a lot of people take for granted: the fuzzy
search interface.

The most common one of these we interact with is Google's search interface.

Google first introduced 

## the canon cat

One of the earliest examples I could find of ubiquitous fuzzy commands was in
the Canon Cat:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/o_TlE_U_X3c?rel=0&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;start=180"
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The Cat was the brainchild of Jef Raskin. In addition to his contributions to
mathematics, aerodynamics, nursing, and music, Jef is perhaps most famous for
taking the research around graphical user interfaces at Xerox Parc and turning
them into the philosophy and human interface guidelines of the original
Macintosh.

The Cat was a word processing appliance more than it was a computer. The main
thing you're going to do in a word processor is type, and in that regard, the
Cat operated like an electric typewriter.

In addition to the jump-to-command functionality, there was a text-based
spreadsheet, a dictionary, and a macro system that allowed for easy navigation
through text. This was all powered through a user-accessible Forth interpreter,
but that's a whole other story.

## how far can we take it?

Two qualities that Jef Raskin says every interface should have are
**predictability** and **forgiveness**. Both are about instilling trust in the
environment being used.

An interface is predictable when an interaction can produce a consistent
output. Swiping-to-unlock our phones becomes muscle memory. Pressing `<enter>`
submits the default button in an alert. The same speed produces the same
distance in two-finger momentum scrolling. These are interactions that have
obvious and broad physical inputs, allowing us to internalize them and not spend
extra brain cycles. The distance between the desired action and the result is
small, because there's trust the action will do the right thing.

Forgiveness is about removing fear in the interaction and about improving
discovery. When a user is still learning or is exploring a less-often-used part
of the interface, there's a lot of hesitation to try things out without the
ability to undo the action. People will not try out new things and blame
themselves rather than the environment when things go wrong.

Many command-completion interfaces do a good job of describing the action to be
taken. And many actions are expensive! But there's a case to be made for
previewing the action to be taken before it's been made. It removes the step of
performing the action and having to go back to the previous state through
explicitly undoing. Undoing becomes an action only when escaping the command
context.

Consider a fuzzy-match file opener that is capable of previewing the file to be
opened. Or in-file search that starts highlighting all available words as soon
as you type. What if more behaviors worked like this? Would you take the ability
to preview a link before clicking on it in a web browser? Could you be taking
picture or video before you ever pressed your camera's shutter button? Could
a mapping application show you several routes before you ever explicitly
selected one?

Predictive interactions are popping up everywhere in the small ---
autocompleting words in texting apps, alarm clocks, etc.

Humans have a hard time thinking about many permutations at once, especially
more than one level deep. Being able to model an interaction several moves ahead
shouldn't be limited to chess grandmasters when we have perfectly good tools to
model our potential paths. But such an amount of information can be
overwhelming.

Additionally, there's the likelihood that a predictive action could be sensitive
or risky, and that providing a preview of the action could be anxiety-inducing
("send this selfie to: your lover, your grandmother, your boss" or `rm -rf /`).
Simply seeing a risky predictive outcome can make you less likely to continue.

Care must be taken to show you relevant results as well. This is more than
simply parsing out related 


[canon-cat-history]: http://www.jagshouse.com/swyft.html
[forth-post]:
