---
layout: default
published: false
---

Communities have spoken and there's been a flurry of tooling, and bravo, we have a standard for Javascript modules now. The way you want ot refer to it is "ESNext Import Syntax", and here's my crib notes.

Javascript module systems are not implemented with some behind-the-scenes runtime-level junk. You could implement them yourself. I will now.

Here's a good function:

```js
function yell(text) {
  return text.toUpperCase();
}
```


Here's the way we export just that function from a file `yeller.js`:

```js
// inflection.js
export yell;

function yell(text) {
  return text.toUpperCase();
}
```


Here's the way we export it in CommonJS format, which picked up steam with all the Nodejs work:

```js
// inflection.js
module.exports = {yell: yell};

function yell(text) {
  return text.toUpperCase();
}
```


And then there's the AMD variant, which maybe gives the most insight into what JS modules systems are doing under the hood:

```js
// inflection.js
define('inflection', function() {
  return {yell: yell};

  function yell(text) {
    return text.toUpperCase();
  }
});
```


Since everyone has seen a little Python, we might as well throw this into the ring:

```python
# inflection.py
def yell(text):
  return text.upper()
```

And in Python you import modules, which gives you that whole namespace:

```python
import yeller

yeller.yell("I am afraid of the dark") # => "I AM AFRAID OF THE DARK"
```


The same sort of situation goes for these JS modules that you import. The JS equivalent is almost exactly the same as the Python one:

```js
import yeller from "yeller";

yeller.yell('I am afraid of the dark');
```

Looking at the other examples, you can kind of trace your way back to what this import system is doing:

- You write all of your functions as top-level to the file you're writing
- You explicitly depend on other modules at the top of your file
- You explicitly export the functions you're interested in exposing as items on your module

Sometimes we only want to work with specific functions, so there's a shorthand for that:

```js
import {yell} from "yeller";

yell('I am afraid of the dark');
```

You're really just referring to a function when you do that — when you import one of these functions, you get the file that comes along with it, and any side effects that running that file might have. So if our `inflection.js` file looked like this:

```js
// inflection.js
export yell;

console.log("This is the inflection.js file");

function yell(text) {
  return text.toUpperCase();
}
```

Then

```js
import {yell} from "yeller";
```

would print `"This is the inflection.js file"` to the console in addition to putting that `yell` function in scope.

Another benefit of referring imports is that you can rename them:

```js
import {yell as shout} from "yeller";

shout('I am afraid of the dark');
```
